.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH UTILS 4 2020-07-22 "read.csv" "read.csv"
.SH NAME
read.csv \- Data Input
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIread.csv(\fBfile\fR as <generic> Object, 
\fBrow_names\fR as <generic> Object = \fB<NULL>\fR, 
\fBcheck_names\fR as boolean = TRUE, 
\fBencoding\fR as <generic> Object = "unknown", 
\fBtsv\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Data Input
 
 Reads a file in table format and creates a data frame from it, 
 with cases corresponding to lines and variables to fields in 
 the file.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBfile\fB \fR\- 
 the name of the file which the data are to be read from. Each 
 row of the table appears as one line of the file. If it does 
 not contain an absolute path, the file name is relative to the 
 current working directory, getwd(). Tilde-expansion is performed 
 where supported. This can be a compressed file (see file).
 
 Alternatively, file can be a readable text-mode connection (which 
 will be opened for reading if necessary, And if so closed (And 
 hence destroyed) at the end of the function call). (If \fBstdin()\fR
 Is used, the prompts for lines may be somewhat confusing. 
 Terminate input with a blank line Or an EOF signal, Ctrl-D on Unix 
 And Ctrl-Z on Windows. Any pushback on stdin() will be cleared 
 before return.)
 
 file can also be a complete URL. (For the supported URL schemes, 
 see the 'URLs’ section of the help for \fBurl\fR.)

.PP
.PP
\fBencoding\fB \fR\- 
 encoding to be assumed for input strings. It is used to mark character 
 strings as known to be in Latin-1 or UTF-8 (see Encoding): it is not 
 used to re-encode the input, but allows R to handle encoded strings in 
 their native encoding (if one of those two). 
 
 use @\fBP:System.Text.Encoding.Default\fR by default.

.PP
.PP
\fBrow_names\fB \fR\- 
 a vector of row names. This can be a vector giving the actual row names, 
 or a single number giving the column of the table which contains the 
 row names, or character string giving the name of the table column 
 containing the row names.

 If there Is a header And the first row contains one fewer field than the 
 number Of columns, the first column In the input Is used For the row 
 names. Otherwise If row.names Is missing, the rows are numbered.

 Using row.names = NULL forces row numbering. Missing Or NULL row.names 
 generate row names that are considered To be 'automatic’ (and not 
 preserved by as.matrix).

.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
utils
.SH FILES
.PP
R.base.dll
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © SMRUCC 2019
