.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH BASE 4 2020-11-02 "load" "load"
.SH NAME
load \- Reload Saved Datasets
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIload(\fBfile\fR as string, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR], 
\fBverbose\fR as boolean = FALSE);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Reload Saved Datasets
 
 Reload datasets written with the function \fBsave\fR.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBfile\fB \fR\- a (readable binary-mode) connection or a character 
 string giving the name of the file to load (when tilde expansion is 
 done).
.PP
.PP
\fBenvir\fB \fR\- the environment where the data should be loaded.
.PP
.PP
\fBverbose\fB \fR\- 
 should item names be printed during loading?

.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
A character vector of the names of objects created, invisibly.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
load can load R objects saved in the current or any earlier format. 
 It can read a compressed file (see save) directly from a file or from 
 a suitable connection (including a call to url).

 A Not-open connection will be opened in mode "rb" And closed after 
 use. Any connection other than a gzfile Or gzcon connection will be 
 wrapped in gzcon to allow compressed saves to be handled: note that 
 this leaves the connection In an altered state (In particular, 
 binary-only), And that it needs To be closed explicitly (it will 
 Not be garbage-collected).

 Only R objects saved In the current format (used since R 1.4.0) can 
 be read from a connection. If no input Is available On a connection 
 a warning will be given, but any input Not In the current format 
 will result In a Error.

 Loading from an earlier version will give a warning about the 'magic number’: 
 magic numbers 1971:1977 are from R < 0.99.0, and RD[ABX]1 from 
 R 0.99.0 to R 1.3.1. These are all obsolete, and you are strongly 
 recommended to re-save such files in a current format.

 The verbose argument Is mainly intended For debugging. If it Is True, 
 Then As objects from the file are loaded, their names will be printed 
 To the console. If verbose Is Set To an Integer value greater than 
 one, additional names corresponding To attributes And other parts Of 
 individual objects will also be printed. Larger values will print names 
 To a greater depth.

 Objects can be saved With references To namespaces, usually As part Of 
 the environment Of a Function Or formula. Such objects can be loaded 
 even If the Namespace Is Not available: it Is replaced by a reference 
 to the global environment with a warning. The warning identifies the 
 first object with such a reference (but there may be more than one).
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
base
.SH FILES
.PP
R.base.dll
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxie.guigang@gcmodeller.org\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © SMRUCC 2019
