.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH BASE 4 2020-10-29 "save.image" "save.image"
.SH NAME
save.image \- Save R Objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIsave.image(\fBfile\fR as string = ".RData", 
\fBversion\fR as string = \fB<NULL>\fR, 
\fBascii\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
\fBcompress\fR as <generic> Object = "!ascii", 
\fBsafe\fR as boolean = TRUE, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Save R Objects
 
 \fBsave.image()\fR is just a short-cut for ‘save my current workspace’, 
 i.e., save(list = ls(all.names = TRUE), file = ".RData", envir = .GlobalEnv). 
 It is also what happens with q("yes").
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBfile\fB \fR\- a (writable binary-mode) connection or the name of the file 
 where the data will be saved (when tilde expansion is done). Must be a file 
 name for save.image or version = 1.
.PP
.PP
\fBversion\fB \fR\- the workspace format version to use. NULL specifies the 
 current default format (2). Version 1 was the default from R 0.99.0 to R 1.3.1 
 and version 2 from R 1.4.0. Version 3 is supported from R 3.5.0.
.PP
.PP
\fBascii\fB \fR\- if TRUE, an ASCII representation of the data is written. 
 The default value of ascii is FALSE which leads to a binary file being written. 
 If NA and version >= 2, a different ASCII representation is used which writes 
 double/complex numbers as binary fractions.
.PP
.PP
\fBcompress\fB \fR\- logical Or character string specifying whether saving to 
 a named file Is to use compression. TRUE corresponds to gzip compression, And 
 character strings "gzip", "bzip2" Or "xz" specify the type of compression. Ignored 
 when file Is a connection And for workspace format version 1.
.PP
.PP
\fBsafe\fB \fR\- logical. If TRUE, a temporary file is used for creating the 
 saved workspace. The temporary file is renamed to file if the save succeeds. This 
 preserves an existing workspace file if the save fails, but at the cost of using 
 extra disk space during the save.
.PP
.PP
\fBenvir\fB \fR\- environment to search for objects to be saved.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
base
.SH FILES
.PP
R.base.dll
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxie.guigang@gcmodeller.org\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © SMRUCC 2019
