---
title: SAM
---

# SAM
_namespace: [SMRUCC.genomics.SequenceModel.SAM](N-SMRUCC.genomics.SequenceModel.SAM.html)_

The Sequence Alignment/Map (SAM) format is a generic nucleotide alignment format that describes the alignment of query sequences or sequencing reads to a reference sequence or assembly. 
 Importantly:

 It is flexible enough to store all the alignment information generated by various alignment programs;
 It is simple enough to be easily generated by alignment programs or converted from existing alignment formats;
 It is compact in file size;
 It allows most of the operations on the alignment to work on a stream without loading the whole alignment into memory;
 It allows the file to be indexed by genomic position to efficiently retrieve all reads aligning to a locus.

 SAM is a tab-delimited text format. SAM is a bit slow to parse; so there is a binary equivalent to SAM, called BAM.

 SAM allows optional fields to be stored. In SAM, each alignment must contain a fixed number of mandatory fields that describe 
 the key information about the alignment (such as coordinate detailed alignment and sequences) and may contain a variable 
 number of optional fields which are less important or aligner specific.
 
 SAM is able to store clipped alignments, spliced alignments, multi-part alignments, padded alignments and alignments in colour space. 
 The extended CIGAR string is the key to describing these types of alignments.

> 
>  SAM stands for Sequence Alignment/Map format. It is a TAB-delimited text format consisting of a
>  header section, which is optional, and an alignment section. If present, the header must be prior to
>  the alignments. Header lines start with `@', while alignment lines do not. Each alignment line has 11
>  mandatory fields for essential alignment information such as mapping position, and variable number of 
>  optional fields for flexible or aligner specific information.
>  
>  SAM格式的文件是一种序列比对文件，使用TAB符号进行分隔，文件的格式为一个可选的标题头部区域，标题头部使用@符号起始而比对区域则不需要
>  每一行序列比对的数据有11个域用于储存比对信息，诸如：mapping的位置之类
>  


### Methods

#### Assembling
```csharp
SMRUCC.genomics.SequenceModel.SAM.SAM.Assembling(System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary{System.Int32,Microsoft.VisualBasic.List{SMRUCC.genomics.SequenceModel.SAM.DocumentElements.AlignmentReads}},System.Boolean)
```


|Parameter Name|Remarks|
|--------------|-------|
|Alignment|请注意先按照方向排序|
|Reversed|-|


#### Load
```csharp
SMRUCC.genomics.SequenceModel.SAM.SAM.Load(System.String,System.Text.Encoding)
```
从一个文本文件之中加载一个SAM格式的文件数据

|Parameter Name|Remarks|
|--------------|-------|
|Path|-|
|encoding|Default value is utf8 encoding.|


#### TrimUnmappedReads
```csharp
SMRUCC.genomics.SequenceModel.SAM.SAM.TrimUnmappedReads
```
移除没有被mapping到基因组上面的reads


### Properties

#### AlignmentsReads
The object of this value is the details alignment data.
#### Head
If present, the header must be prior to the alignments. Header lines start With `@', while alignment lines do not.
 (文件的可选头部区域必须要在比对数据区域的前面并且每一行以@符号开始)
