.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH GSEA 2 2000-1月 "enrichment" "enrichment"
.SH NAME
enrichment \- do GSEA enrichment analysis
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIenrichment(\fBbackground\fR as any, 
\fBgeneSet\fR as any, 
\fBexpression\fR as any = \fB<NULL>\fR, 
\fBcut_size\fR as integer = 3, 
\fBoutputAll\fR as boolean = TRUE, 
\fBresize\fR as integer = -1, 
\fBshowProgress\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
..., 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
do GSEA enrichment analysis
 
 Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) (also called functional 
 enrichment analysis or pathway enrichment analysis) is a 
 method to identify classes of genes or proteins that are 
 over-represented in a large set of genes or proteins, and 
 may have an association with disease phenotypes. The method 
 uses statistical approaches to identify significantly enriched 
 or depleted groups of genes. Transcriptomics technologies 
 and proteomics results often identify thousands of genes 
 which are used for the analysis.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBbackground\fB \fR\- a @\fBT:SMRUCC.genomics.Analysis.HTS.GSEA.Background\fR model or @\fBT:SMRUCC.genomics.Analysis.HTS.GSEA.KnowledgeBase.Metabolism.Metpa.metpa\fR background model.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBgeneSet\fB \fR\- a given geneset id list. 
.PP
.PP
\fBexpression\fB \fR\- 
 the expression value of the given gene set. this parameter could be missing. 
 default use the fisher test enrichment method for the given gene set when 
 the expression vector is missing. GSEA method will be applied for the enrichment 
 analysis if this parameter is not missing.
. 
.PP
.PP
\fBargs\fB \fR\- 
 the additional argument list that may be used, 
 
 for metpa background model, \fBtopo\fR parameter will be used for 
 specific the network topology impact score source, value of the
 \fBtopo\fR parameter could be \fBdgr\fR or \fBrbc\fR.
. 
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
the expression value could be the raw expression mean value, different expression 
 foldchange value for the group comparision, or other related gene set sort scores.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
GSEA
.SH FILES
.PP
gseakit.dll
.PP
