.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH STATS.CLUSTERING 1 2020-07-26 "dbscan" "dbscan"
.SH NAME
dbscan \- DBSCAN density reachability and connectivity clustering
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIdbscan(\fBdata\fR as <generic> Object, 
\fBeps\fR as double, 
\fBMinPts\fR as integer = 5, 
\fBscale\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
\fBmethod\fR as <integer> dbScanMethods = [raw], 
\fBseeds\fR as boolean = TRUE, 
\fBcountmode\fR as <generic> Object = \fB<NULL>\fR);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
DBSCAN density reachability and connectivity clustering
 
 Generates a density based clustering of arbitrary shape as 
 introduced in Ester et al. (1996).
 
 Clusters require a minimum no of points (MinPts) within a maximum 
 distance (eps) around one of its members (the seed). Any point 
 within eps around any point which satisfies the seed condition 
 is a cluster member (recursively). Some points may not belong to 
 any clusters (noise).
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBdata\fB \fR\- data matrix, data.frame, dissimilarity matrix 
 or dist-object. Specify method="dist" if the data should be 
 interpreted as dissimilarity matrix or object. Otherwise Euclidean 
 distances will be used.
.PP
.PP
\fBeps\fB \fR\- Reachability distance, see Ester et al. (1996).
.PP
.PP
\fBMinPts\fB \fR\- Reachability minimum no. Of points, see Ester et al. (1996).
.PP
.PP
\fBscale\fB \fR\- scale the data if TRUE.
.PP
.PP
\fBmethod\fB \fR\- 
 "dist" treats data as distance matrix (relatively fast but memory 
 expensive), "raw" treats data as raw data and avoids calculating a 
 distance matrix (saves memory but may be slow), "hybrid" expects 
 also raw data, but calculates partial distance matrices (very fast 
 with moderate memory requirements).

.PP
.PP
\fBseeds\fB \fR\- FALSE to not include the isseed-vector in the dbscan-object.
.PP
.PP
\fBcountmode\fB \fR\- 
 NULL or vector of point numbers at which to report progress.

.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
stats.clustering
.SH FILES
.PP
R.math.dll
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org 2020
