.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH RINTEROP.BASE 1 2000-01-01 "save" "save"
.SH NAME
save \- writes an external representation of R objects to the specified file. The objects can be read
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIsave(\fBobjects\fR as string, 
\fBfile\fR as string, 
\fBascii\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
\fBversion\fR as string = "NULL", 
\fBenvir\fR as string = "parent.frame()", 
\fBcompress\fR as boolean = TRUE, 
\fBcompression_level\fR as integer = 6, 
\fBeval_promises\fR as boolean = TRUE, 
\fBprecheck\fR as boolean = TRUE);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
writes an external representation of R objects to the specified file. The objects can be read 
 back from the file at a later date by using the function load or attach (or data in some cases).
 (这个函数是安全的函数，假若文件夹不存在的话，这个函数会自动创建文件夹)
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBobjects\fB \fR\- the names of the objects to be saved (as symbols or character strings).
.PP
.PP
\fBfile$\fB \fR\- a (writable binary-mode) connection or the name of the file where the data 
 will be saved (when tilde expansion is done). Must be a file name for save.image or version = 1.
.PP
.PP
\fBascii\fB \fR\- if TRUE, an ASCII representation of the data is written. The default 
 value of ascii is FALSE which leads to a binary file being written. If NA and version >= 2, a 
 different ASCII representation is used which writes double/complex numbers as binary fractions.
.PP
.PP
\fBversion$\fB \fR\- the workspace format version to use. NULL specifies the current default format.
 The version used from R 0.99.0 to R 1.3.1 was version 1. The default format as from R 1.4.0 is version 2.
.PP
.PP
\fBenvir$\fB \fR\- environment to search for objects to be saved.
.PP
.PP
\fBcompress$\fB \fR\- logical or character string specifying whether saving to a named file is 
 to use compression. TRUE corresponds to gzip compression, and character strings "gzip", "bzip2" 
 or "xz" specify the type of compression. Ignored when file is a connection and for workspace 
 format version 1.
.PP
.PP
\fBcompression_level$\fB \fR\- integer: the level of compression to be used. Defaults to 6 
 for gzip compression and to 9 for bzip2 or xz compression.
.PP
.PP
\fBeval_promises\fB \fR\- logical: should objects which are promises be forced before saving?
.PP
.PP
\fBprecheck\fB \fR\- logical: should the existence of the objects be checked before starting 
 to save (and in particular before opening the file/connection)? Does not apply to version 1 saves.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The names of the objects specified either as symbols (or character strings) in ... or as a 
 character vector in list are used to look up the objects from environment envir. By default 
 promises are evaluated, but if eval.promises = FALSE promises are saved (together with their 
 evaluation environments). (Promises embedded in objects are always saved unevaluated.)
 All R platforms use the XDR (bigendian) representation Of C ints And doubles In binary saved 
 files, And these are portable across all R platforms.
 ASCII saves used To be useful For moving data between platforms but are now mainly Of historical 
 interest. They can be more compact than binary saves where compression Is Not used, but are 
 almost always slower To both read And write: binary saves compress much better than ASCII ones. 
 Further, Decimal ASCII saves may Not restore Double/complex values exactly, And what value Is 
 restored may depend On the R platform.
 Default values For the ascii, compress, safe And version arguments can be modified With the 
 "save.defaults" Option (used both by save And save.image), see also the 'Examples’ section. 
 If a "save.image.defaults" option is set it is used in preference to "save.defaults" for function 
 save.image (which allows this to have different defaults). In addition, compression_level can be 
 part of the "save.defaults" option.
 A connection that Is Not already open will be opened In mode "wb". Supplying a connection which 
 Is open And Not In binary mode gives an Error.
 
 ###### Compression
 Large files can be reduced considerably In size by compression. A particular 46MB R Object was 
 saved As 35MB without compression In 2 seconds, 22MB With gzip compression In 8 secs, 19MB With 
 bzip2 compression In 13 secs And 9.4MB With xz compression In 40 secs. The load times were 1.3, 
 2.8, 5.5 And 5.7 seconds respectively. These results are indicative, but the relative performances 
 Do depend On the actual file: xz compressed unusually well here.
 It Is possible to compress later (with gzip, bzip2 Or xz) a file saved with compress = FALSE: the 
 effect Is the same As saving With compression. Also, a saved file can be uncompressed And re-compressed 
 under a different compression scheme (And see resaveRdaFiles For a way To Do so from within R).
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
Rinterop.base
.SH FILES
.PP
RDotNET.Extensions.VisualBasic.dll
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright ©  2015
