.TH DOWNLOAD_PROTEINS 1 2026-5月 "" "Fetch Protein Data from UniProt via REST API"
.SH NAME
download_proteins \- download_proteins(q,
    <i>tax.id</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>as.fasta</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>TRUE</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIdownload_proteins(q,
    <i>tax.id</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>as.fasta</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>TRUE</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Queries the UniProt database for protein information based on a search term
and an optional taxonomy ID. This function acts as a wrapper around the
UniProt REST API, allowing for the retrieval of either raw query results
or formatted protein sequences in FASTA format.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBq\fB \fR\- . Character. The query term used to search UniProt.
This can be a protein name, gene name, UniProt accession, or any valid
UniProt query string (e.g., "insulin", "P12345").
.PP
.PP
\fBtax.id\fB \fR\- NULL. 
.PP
.PP
\fBas.fasta\fB \fR\- TRUE. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
The return value depends on the \code{as_fasta} argument:
\itemize{
\item If \code{as_fasta = TRUE}: Returns the protein sequences in FASTA
format (typically as a character vector or raw text).
\item If \code{as_fasta = FALSE}: Returns the raw response object from
\code{UniProt::rest_query}.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Search for insulin protein sequences in humans (TaxID: 9606)
fasta_seqs <- download_proteins(q = "insulin", tax_id = 9606)
# Search for a specific accession and get the raw result object
raw_data <- download_proteins(q = "P69905", as_fasta = FALSE)

#}
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.download_proteins at uniprot.R:line 44
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, GPL3 Licensed 2026
