.TH FBA_SOLVER 1 2026-5月 "" "Flux Balance Analysis (FBA) Solver in Native R"
.SH NAME
FBA_solver \- FBA_solver(S.df, obj.rxns,
    <i>outputdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>default.lb</i> = <span style='color: green;'>-1000</span>,
    <i>default.ub</i> = <span style='color: green;'>1000</span>,
    <i>flux.bounds</i> = 'list'())
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIFBA_solver(S.df, obj.rxns,
    <i>outputdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>default.lb</i> = <span style='color: green;'>-1000</span>,
    <i>default.ub</i> = <span style='color: green;'>1000</span>,
    <i>flux.bounds</i> = 'list'())\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Solves a Flux Balance Analysis (FBA) problem by formulating it as a linear
programming problem using the stoichiometric matrix and solving it with
the \code{lpSolve} package. Results, including full and active flux
distributions, are exported to the specified output directory.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBS.df\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBobj.rxns\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBoutputdir\fB \fR\- './'. A character string specifying the directory path for exporting
FBA result files. Defaults to the current directory (\code{"./"}).
.PP
.PP
\fBdefault.lb\fB \fR\- -1000. 
.PP
.PP
\fBdefault.ub\fB \fR\- 1000. 
.PP
.PP
\fBflux.bounds\fB \fR\- 'list'(). 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
Invisible \code{NULL}. The function is called for its side effects
(console output and file generation).
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function formulates the standard FBA problem:
\itemize{
\item Maximize: \code{sum(obj_rxns fluxes)}
\item Subject to: \code{S * v = 0} (Steady-state constraint)
\item And: \code{lb <= v <= ub} (Flux bounds)
}
If the solver succeeds, it writes the following files to \code{outputdir}:
\itemize{
\item \code{FBA_Full_Flux_Distribution.csv}: All reactions and their calculated fluxes.
\item \code{FBA_Active_Flux_Distribution.csv}: Reactions with flux absolute value > 1e-6.
\item \code{ObjectiveFlux.txt}: The maximum objective value.
\item \code{FBA_Result.json}: The raw result object from \code{lpSolve} in JSON format.
}
If the solver fails, it prints the status code and common troubleshooting tips to the console.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Assuming you have a stoichiometric matrix data frame 'S_mat'
# where colnames are reaction IDs and rownames are metabolites
# Define objective reactions
objectives <- c("BIOMASS_Ecoli_core_w_GAM")
# Define specific bounds for glucose uptake (e.g., max uptake = 10)
my_bounds <- list("EX_glc__D_e" = c(-10, 1000))
# Run FBA
FBA_solver(
S_df = S_mat,
obj_rxns = objectives,
outputdir = "./fba_results",
default_lb = -1000,
default_ub = 1000,
flux_bounds = my_bounds
)

#}
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.FBA_solver at FBA.R:line 75
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, GPL3 Licensed 2026
