.TH LINK_KO 1 2026-5月 "" "Batch query KEGG KO annotations for given KEGG gene IDs"
.SH NAME
link_ko \- link_ko(kegg.id,
    <i>cache</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./tmp'</strong></span>,
    <i>batch.size</i> = <span style='color: green;'>100</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIlink_ko(kegg.id,
    <i>cache</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./tmp'</strong></span>,
    <i>batch.size</i> = <span style='color: green;'>100</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


`link_ko` takes a vector of KEGG gene identifiers (e.g. `"taes:803091"`)
and retrieves their associated KEGG Orthology (KO) identifiers by calling
the KEGG REST API `link/ko` endpoint. Results are cached locally in
text files to avoid repeated downloads.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBkegg.id\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBcache\fB \fR\- './tmp'. Character. Path to the directory where cached results are
stored. Text files in this directory are assumed to be tab‑separated
output from previous KEGG `link/ko` queries. Default is `"./tmp"`.
.PP
.PP
\fBbatch.size\fB \fR\- 100. 
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function first scans `cache` for existing result files, reads them,
and extracts already queried KEGG IDs. Those IDs are excluded from the
current API requests to avoid redundant downloads.
For each batch of remaining KEGG IDs, a URL of the form
\preformatted{https://rest.kegg.jp/link/ko/<id1>+<id2>+...+<idn>}
is constructed. The KEGG API returns a tab‑delimited text file, which is
written to a file named `<md5(url)>.txt` under `cache`. A 1‑second pause
is inserted between requests to reduce load on the KEGG server.
This implementation assumes that the HTTP request returns plain text
content; the exact syntax of `requests.get()`, `plain_text`, and `sleep()`
depends on your runtime environment and is shown here as pseudo‑code.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Basic usage with default cache directory
link_ko(c("hsa:10458", "mmu:12345"))
# Custom cache directory and batch size
link_ko(
kegg_id = c("taes:803091", "taes:803092"),
cache = "./kegg_cache",
batch_size = 50
)
# Read back the cached results
cache_dir <- "./kegg_cache"
files <- list.files(cache_dir, pattern = "\\.txt$", full.names = TRUE)
ko_table <- do.call(rbind, lapply(files, read.table,
header = FALSE, row.names = NULL, sep = "\t"
))
head(ko_table)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{read.table}} for reading the cached result files;
KEGG REST API documentation for \code{/link/ko} operation.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.link_ko at link_ko.R:line 73
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, GPL3 Licensed 2026
