.TH METPA_ENRICH 1 2026-Feb "" "The GCModeller GSEA toolkit"
.SH NAME
metpa_enrich \- metpa_enrich(data, metpa,
    <i>log2FC</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'log2(FC)'</strong></span>,
    <i>id</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'kegg'</strong></span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fImetpa_enrich(data, metpa,
    <i>log2FC</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'log2(FC)'</strong></span>,
    <i>id</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'kegg'</strong></span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Do enrichment based on metpa background model
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBdata\fB \fR\- . a given set of the target for do enrichment analysis,
this parameter value could be a character vector which is stands
for the kegg id character vector or a dataframe object that
contains the data annotation fields and the log2fc value.
.PP
.PP
\fBmetpa\fB \fR\- . the metabolic network pathway model for used as the
enrichment background data to run enrichment analysis. this
parameter value should be a CLR object that read from file.
.PP
.PP
\fBlog2FC\fB \fR\- 'log2(FC)'. the field name for get the log2FC value, the log2FC
value will be used for do colorful url encoded. And this parameter
option only works when the input data is a dataframe object.
.PP
.PP
\fBid\fB \fR\- 'kegg'. the field name for get the target idset data for run the
enrichment analysis. And this parameter option only works when
the input data is a dataframe object.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
A dataframe object that contains the enrichment analysis result,
value nothing will be return if the given kegg idset is empty.
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.metpa_enrich at metpa_enrich.R:line 23
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, GPL3 Licensed 2026
