.TH SCAN_MOTIFS 1 2026-5月 "" "Parallel Motif Site Scanning"
.SH NAME
scan_motifs \- scan_motifs(db, seqs,
    <i>identities.cutoff</i> = <span style='color: green;'>0.8</span>,
    <i>minW</i> = <span style='color: green;'>0.85</span>,
    <i>top</i> = <span style='color: green;'>3</span>,
    <i>permutation</i> = <span style='color: green;'>2500</span>,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>n.threads</i> = <span style='color: green;'>8</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIscan_motifs(db, seqs,
    <i>identities.cutoff</i> = <span style='color: green;'>0.8</span>,
    <i>minW</i> = <span style='color: green;'>0.85</span>,
    <i>top</i> = <span style='color: green;'>3</span>,
    <i>permutation</i> = <span style='color: green;'>2500</span>,
    <i>workdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>n.threads</i> = <span style='color: green;'>8</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Scans given upstream sequences against a motif Position Weight Matrix (PWM) database
in parallel. The function processes motif families independently, performs motif
matching with customizable statistical thresholds, and aggregates the results into
a single dataframe.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBdb\fB \fR\- . \code{character}. The file path to the motif PWM database.
.PP
.PP
\fBseqs\fB \fR\- . \code{character}. The file path to the FASTA file containing TSS upstream
sequences for motif site matching.
.PP
.PP
\fBidentities.cutoff\fB \fR\- 0.8. 
.PP
.PP
\fBminW\fB \fR\- 0.85. \code{numeric}. The minimum weight or score threshold for a motif match.
Default is \code{0.85}.
.PP
.PP
\fBtop\fB \fR\- 3. \code{integer}. The number of top matches to retain for each search
region or motif. Default is \code{3}.
.PP
.PP
\fBpermutation\fB \fR\- 2500. \code{integer}. The number of permutations to perform for
calculating the statistical significance (e.g., p-value) of the motif matches.
Default is \code{2500}.
.PP
.PP
\fBworkdir\fB \fR\- './'. \code{character}. The working directory where intermediate files and
a \code{results/} subdirectory will be created. Default is \code{"./"}.
.PP
.PP
\fBn.threads\fB \fR\- 8. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
A consolidated \code{data.frame} (or \code{tibble}) containing the motif
site match results from all motif families. The exact columns depend on the
output generated by the underlying \code{TRN.builder::motif_search} function.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function executes in two main stages:
\enumerate{
\item \strong{Parallel Search}: It first reads the motif families from the database.
Using a parallel backend (via \code{snowFall}), it distributes the search tasks
across \code{n_threads}. Each thread scans the upstream sequences for a specific
motif family and writes the intermediate results to individual CSV files in
\code{<workdir>/results/}.
\item \strong{Aggregation}: After all parallel tasks complete, the function reads
all generated CSV files from the results directory and row-binds them into a
single unified dataframe using \code{dplyr::bind_rows}.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Define paths to your database and sequence file
motif_db <- "path/to/motif_database"
upstream_fasta <- "path/to/upstream_sequences.fasta"
# Run the parallel motif scanning
results <- scan_motifs(
db = motif_db,
seqs = upstream_fasta,
identities_cutoff = 0.85,
minW = 0.9,
top = 5,
permutation = 5000,
workdir = "./motif_scan_workspace",
n_threads = 16
)
head(results)

#}
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.scan_motifs at scan_motifs.R:line 65
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, GPL3 Licensed 2026
