.TH UNION_RENDER 1 2026-2月 "" "Render KEGG Pathway Maps with Multi-Omics Highlighting"
.SH NAME
union_render \- union_render(union.data,
    <i>outputdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>id</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'KEGG'</strong></span>,
    <i>compound</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'compound'</strong></span>,
    <i>gene</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'gene'</strong></span>,
    <i>protein</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'protein'</strong></span>,
    <i>text.color</i> = <span style='color: #FFFFFF;'><strong>'white'</strong></span>,
    <i>kegg.maps</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIunion_render(union.data,
    <i>outputdir</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'./'</strong></span>,
    <i>id</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'KEGG'</strong></span>,
    <i>compound</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'compound'</strong></span>,
    <i>gene</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'gene'</strong></span>,
    <i>protein</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'protein'</strong></span>,
    <i>text.color</i> = <span style='color: #FFFFFF;'><strong>'white'</strong></span>,
    <i>kegg.maps</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Generates interactive HTML and static PNG visualizations of KEGG pathway maps
with customizable highlighting for compounds, genes, and proteins. Output files
are saved to the specified directory.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBunion.data\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBoutputdir\fB \fR\- './'. Output directory path for rendered files (default: "./").
.PP
.PP
\fBid\fB \fR\- 'KEGG'. Column name in `union_data` containing KEGG pathway IDs (default: "KEGG").
.PP
.PP
\fBcompound\fB \fR\- 'compound'. Column name in `union_data` containing compound highlight data
(default: "compound"). See Details for formatting.
.PP
.PP
\fBgene\fB \fR\- 'gene'. Column name in `union_data` containing gene highlight data
(default: "gene").
.PP
.PP
\fBprotein\fB \fR\- 'protein'. Column name in `union_data` containing protein highlight data
(default: "protein").
.PP
.PP
\fBtext.color\fB \fR\- 'white'. Color for node labels on pathway maps (default: "white").
.PP
.PP
\fBkegg.maps\fB \fR\- NULL. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
Invisibly returns `NULL`. Primary output is generated as files in `outputdir`.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
**Highlight Data Format**:
The `compound`, `gene`, and `protein` columns should contain strings in one of two formats:
1. Semicolon-separated key-value pairs: `"K00001:blue;K00002:red;C00001:green"`
2. Semicolon-separated IDs (default color: red): `"K00001;K00002;C00001"`
These are parsed by [`parse.highlight_tuples()`](https://gcmodeller.org/vignettes/kegg_kit/report.utils/parse.highlight_tuples.html)
into named lists (e.g., `list(K00001 = "blue", K00002 = "red")`).
**Output Files**:
For each KEGG ID, two files are generated:
- `[KEGG_ID].html`: Interactive pathway visualization
- `[KEGG_ID].png`: Static PNG image
**Error Handling**:
Errors during rendering are caught and printed to the console without stopping execution.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Minimal example with default column names
data <- data.frame(
KEGG = "map00010",
compound = "C00031:green;C00022:blue",
gene = "hsa:1234;hsa:5678:yellow",
protein = "P12345"
)
union_render(data, outputdir = "~/kegg_output")
# Custom column names and text color
data <- data.frame(
PathwayID = "map00020",
Metabolites = "C00024; C00036:orange",
Genes = "hsa:9012:purple",
Proteins = "P67890:red"
)
union_render(data,
id = "PathwayID",
compound = "Metabolites",
gene = "Genes",
protein = "Proteins",
text.color = "black"
)
#}
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.union_render at union_render.R:line 73
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, GPL3 Licensed 2026
