.TH UNIPROT_BACKGROUND 1 2026-3月 "" "Make a KEGG GSEA background from UniProt protein tables and KEGG KO links"
.SH NAME
uniprot_background \- uniprot_background(proteinTable, ko.maps,
    <i>id.key</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'row.names'</strong></span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIuniprot_background(proteinTable, ko.maps,
    <i>id.key</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'row.names'</strong></span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


`uniprot_background` builds a GSEA background model by integrating:
\itemize{
\item A protein table exported from UniProt (e.g. via the “proteinTable” tool).
\item KEGG gene–KO mappings obtained from the KEGG REST API `link/ko` endpoint.
}
The function maps proteins (rows in `proteinTable`) to KEGG Orthology (KO) identifiers,
then to KEGG reference pathways, and finally constructs a background object suitable
for enrichment analysis with the `gseakit` framework.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBproteinTable\fB \fR\- . Data frame. A protein table exported from UniProt.
It should contain at least the following columns (names may vary):
\itemize{
\item A gene/protein identifier column specified by `id_key`.
\item `name`: protein name.
\item `geneName`: gene symbol or primary gene name.
\item `KEGG`: KEGG cross-reference identifiers (optional but recommended).
}
If `id_key = "row.names"` or `"0"`, the row names of `proteinTable` are used
as the gene identifier for linking to KO mappings.
.PP
.PP
\fBko.maps\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBid.key\fB \fR\- 'row.names'. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
An object of class `Background` from the `gseakit` framework, which
represents a GSEA background model (see `as.background`). Conceptually, the
returned object is a collection of clusters, where each cluster corresponds
to a KEGG pathway or map, and each cluster entry contains protein-level
annotations (identifier, name, alias, KEGG, UniProt) for the genes in that
pathway.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function performs the following steps:
\enumerate{
\item If `ko_maps` is a directory, reads all `.txt` files inside it, expecting
them to be KEGG `link/ko` results (tab-delimited: `kegg_id` \t `KO`), and
combines them into a single data frame.
\item Loads a standard reference KO set via `background::KO_reference()` and
converts it to a gene set list using `as.geneSet`.
\item Groups the `kegg_id`–`KO` mapping by KO and creates a lookup list from
each KO to its associated KEGG gene IDs.
\item Normalizes `proteinTable` into a data frame and ensures the identifier
column specified by `id_key` exists (using row names if requested).
\item For each KEGG reference pathway (cluster):
\itemize{
\item Parses the pathway ID and name from the cluster identifier
(expected format `"pathway_id - pathway_name"`).
\item Retrieves the set of KO identifiers associated with that pathway.
\item Uses these KO identifiers to look up the corresponding KEGG gene IDs
from the `ko_maps` lookup.
\item Maps those KEGG gene IDs to rows in `proteinTable` and builds a
data frame with columns:
`xref` (gene identifier), `name`, `alias`, `KEGG`, `uniprot`.
\item Wraps this data frame as a `gsea_cluster` object.
}
\item Collects all non-NULL clusters and converts them into a `Background`
object via `as.background`.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Example: build background from a UniProt protein table and a directory of
# KEGG link/ko results
# 1) UniProt protein table (exported via the UniProt "proteinTable" tool)
prot_tbl <- read.delim("uniprot_proteins.tsv")
# 2) Directory containing files from link_ko or direct KEGG REST calls, e.g.
# https://rest.kegg.jp/link/ko/taes:803091+taes:803092+taes:123456
ko_dir <- "./kegg_ko_links"
# 3) Build background model
bg <- uniprot_background(
proteinTable = prot_tbl,
ko_maps      = ko_dir,
id_key       = "row.names"   # use row names of prot_tbl as identifiers
)
# Inspect the background object
str(bg)

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{link_ko}} for generating KEGG `link/ko` result files;
\code{\link{as.background}} and the `gseakit` framework for the
`Background` class.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.uniprot_background at uniprot.R:line 163
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, GPL3 Licensed 2026
