.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH DIAGNOSTICS 0 2000-01-01 "help" "help"
.SH NAME
help \- \fBhelp\fR is the primary interface to the help systems.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIhelp(\fBsymbol\fR as <generic> Object, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBhelp\fR is the primary interface to the help systems.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBsymbol\fB \fR\- 
 usually, a name or character string specifying the topic for 
 which help is sought. A character string (enclosed in explicit 
 single or double quotes) is always taken as naming a topic.
 
 If the value Of topic Is a length-one character vector the 
 topic Is taken To be the value Of the only element. Otherwise 
 topic must be a name Or a reserved word (If syntactically 
 valid) Or character String.
 
 See 'Details’ for what happens if this is omitted.
 
 this symbol can be given a prefix of package name, which is 
 a name or character vector giving the packages to look into for 
 documentation, or NULL. By default, all packages whose namespaces 
 are loaded are used. To avoid a name being deparsed use e.g. 
 (pkg_ref) (see the examples).

.PP
.PP
\fBenv\fB \fR\- -
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The following types of help are available:
 
  + Plain text help
  + HTML help pages With hyperlinks To other topics, shown In a browser by 
    browseURL. If For some reason HTML help Is unavailable (see startDynamicHelp), 
    plain text help will be used instead.
  + For help only, typeset as PDF – see the section on 'Offline help’.
 
 The Default For the type Of help Is selected When R Is installed – 
 the 'factory-fresh’ default is HTML help.
 
 The rendering Of text help will use directional quotes In suitable 
 locales (UTF-8 And Single-Byte Windows locales): sometimes the fonts 
 used Do Not support these quotes so this can be turned off by setting 
 options(useFancyQuotes = False).
 
 topic Is Not optional If it Is omitted R will give
 
  + If a package Is specified, (text Or, In interactive use only, HTML) 
    information On the package, including hints/links To suitable help 
    topics.
  + If lib.loc only Is specified, a (text) list of available packages.
  + Help on help itself if none of the first three arguments Is specified.
 
 Some topics need To be quoted (by backticks) Or given As a character String. 
 These include those which cannot syntactically appear On their own such 
 As unary And binary operators, Function And control-flow reserved words 
 (including If, Else For, In, repeat, While, break And Next). The other 
 reserved words can be used As If they were names, For example True, NA And 
 Inf.
 
 If multiple help files matching topic are found, In interactive use a menu 
 Is presented For the user To choose one: in batch use the first on the search 
 path Is used. (For HTML help the menu will be an HTML page, otherwise a 
 graphical menu if possible if getOption("menu.graphics") Is true, the default.)
 
 Note that HTML help does Not make use Of Lib.loc: it will always look first 
 In the loaded packages And Then along .libPaths().
 
 Offline help
 
 Typeset documentation Is produced by running the LaTeX version Of the help 
 page through pdflatex: this will produce a PDF file.
 
 The appearance Of the output can be customized through a file 'Rhelp.cfg’ 
 somewhere in your LaTeX search path: this will be input as a LaTeX style 
 file after Rd.sty. Some environment variables are consulted, notably 
 R_PAPERSIZE (via getOption("papersize")) and R_RD4PDF (see ‘Making manuals’ 
 in the ‘R Installation and Administration Manual’).
 
 If there Is a Function offline_help_helper In the workspace Or further 
 down the search path it Is used To Do the typesetting, otherwise the 
 Function Of that name In the utils Namespace (To which the first paragraph 
 applies). It should accept at least two arguments, the name Of the LaTeX 
 file To be typeset And the type (which Is nowadays ignored). It accepts 
 a third argument, texinputs, which will give the graphics path When the 
 help document contains figures, And will otherwise Not be supplied.
 
 Note
 
 Unless lib.loc Is specified explicitly, the loaded packages are searched 
 before those in the specified libraries. This ensures that if a library 
 Is loaded from a library Not in the known library trees, then the help from 
 the loaded library Is used. If lib.loc Is specified explicitly, the loaded 
 packages are Not searched.
 
 If this search fails And argument Try.all.packages Is True And neither 
 packages nor Lib.loc Is specified, Then all the packages In the known 
 library trees are searched For help On topic And a list Of (any) packages 
 where help may be found Is displayed (With hyperlinks For help_type = "html"). 
 NB: searching all packages can be slow, especially the first time (caching 
 Of files by the OS can expedite subsequent searches dramatically).
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
diagnostics
.SH FILES
.PP
Rstudio.dll
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright ©  2020
