.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH PROTEINKIT 1 2000-1月 "chou_fasman" "chou_fasman"
.SH NAME
chou_fasman \- The Chou-Fasman method is a bioinformatics technique used for predicting the secondary structure of proteins.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIchou_fasman(\fBprot\fR as any, 
\fBpolyaa\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The Chou-Fasman method is a bioinformatics technique used for predicting the secondary structure of proteins. 
 It was developed by Peter Y. Chou and Gerald D. Fasman in the 1970s. The method is based on the observation 
 that certain amino acids have a propensity to form specific types of secondary structures, such as alpha-helices, 
 beta-sheets, and turns.
 
 Here's a brief overview of how the Chou-Fasman method works:
 
 1. **Amino Acid Propensities**: Each amino acid is assigned a set of probability values that reflect its 
    tendency to be found in alpha-helices, beta-sheets, and turns. These values are derived from statistical 
    analysis of known protein structures.
 2. **Sliding Window Technique**: A sliding window of typically 7 to 9 amino acids is moved along the protein 
    sequence. At each position, the average propensity for each type of secondary structure is calculated 
    for the amino acids within the window.
 3. **Thresholds and Rules**: The method uses predefined thresholds and rules to identify regions of the 
    protein sequence that are likely to form alpha-helices or beta-sheets based on the calculated propensities. 
    For example, a region with a high average propensity for alpha-helix and meeting certain criteria 
    might be predicted to form an alpha-helix.
 4. **Secondary Structure Prediction**: The method predicts the secondary structure by identifying contiguous 
    regions of the sequence that exceed the thresholds for helix or sheet formation. It also takes into 
    account the likelihood of turns, which are important for the overall folding of the protein.
 5. **Refinement**: The initial predictions are often refined using additional rules and considerations, such 
    as the tendency of certain amino acids to stabilize or destabilize specific structures, and the overall 
    composition of the protein.
    
 The Chou-Fasman method was one of the first widely used techniques for predicting protein secondary structure
 and played a significant role in the field of structural bioinformatics. However, it has largely been superseded
 by more accurate methods, such as those based on machine learning and neural networks, which can take into
 account more complex patterns and interactions within protein sequences.
 
 Despite its limitations, the Chou-Fasman method remains a historical milestone in the understanding of 
 protein structure and the development of computational methods for predicting it. It also serves as a 
 foundational concept for those learning about protein structure prediction and bioinformatics.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBprot\fB \fR\- a collection of the protein sequence data. 
.PP
.PP
\fBpolyaa\fB \fR\- 
 returns @\fBT:SMRUCC.genomics.ProteinModel.ChouFasmanRules.StructuralAnnotation\fR clr object model if this parameter is set TRUE, otherwise returns 
 the string representitive of the chou-fasman structure information.
. 
.PP
.PP
\fBenv\fB \fR\- -. 
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
print(chou_fasman("AAABAAGKKKJLLMMMMMM"));
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
proteinKit
.SH FILES
.PP
seqtoolkit.dll
.PP
