.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH REPOSITORY 1 2000-1月 "compound" "compound"
.SH NAME
compound \- construct a new kegg compound data model
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIcompound(\fBentry\fR as string, 
\fBname\fR as string, 
\fBformula\fR as string, 
\fBexactMass\fR as double, 
\fBreaction\fR as string = \fB<NULL>\fR, 
\fBenzyme\fR as string = \fB<NULL>\fR, 
\fBremarks\fR as string = \fB<NULL>\fR, 
\fBKCF\fR as string = \fB<NULL>\fR, 
\fBDBLinks\fR as <generic> dataframe = \fB<NULL>\fR, 
\fBpathway\fR as <generic> dataframe = \fB<NULL>\fR, 
\fBmodules\fR as <generic> dataframe = \fB<NULL>\fR);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
construct a new kegg compound data model
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBentry\fB \fR\- the kegg compound id. 
.PP
.PP
\fBname\fB \fR\- the compound common names. 
.PP
.PP
\fBformula\fB \fR\- the chemical formula of the kegg compound. 
.PP
.PP
\fBexactMass\fB \fR\- the evaluated exact mass value based on the formula string. 
.PP
.PP
\fBreaction\fB \fR\- A set of the related kegg reaction data about current metabolite. 
.PP
.PP
\fBenzyme\fB \fR\- A set of the related enzyme that associated with the reaction list. 
.PP
.PP
\fBremarks\fB \fR\- comment text about this metabolite. 
.PP
.PP
\fBKCF\fB \fR\- the molecular strucutre text. 
.PP
.PP
\fBDBLinks\fB \fR\- A dataframe object that contains the external reference link to 
 other database of current metabolite object, data fields: "db", "id", "link" should 
 be exists in this dataframe object.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBpathway\fB \fR\- -. 
.PP
.PP
\fBmodules\fB \fR\- -. 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
repository
.SH FILES
.PP
kegg_kit.dll
.PP
