.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH GSVA 1 2000-1月 "gsva" "gsva"
.SH NAME
gsva \- Gene Set Variation Analysis for microarray and RNA-seq data
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIgsva(\fBexpr\fR as any, 
\fBgeneSet\fR as any, 
\fBname_suffix\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Gene Set Variation Analysis for microarray and RNA-seq data
 
 Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSVA) is a non-parametric, unsupervised 
 method for estimating variation of gene set enrichment through the
 samples of a expression data set. GSVA performs a change in coordinate
 systems, transforming the data from a gene by sample matrix to a gene-set
 by sample matrix, thereby allowing the evaluation of pathway enrichment 
 for each sample. This new matrix of GSVA enrichment scores facilitates
 applying standard analytical methods like functional enrichment, 
 survival analysis, clustering, CNV-pathway analysis or cross-tissue 
 pathway analysis, in a pathway-centric manner.
 
 main function of the package which estimates activity
 scores For Each given gene-Set
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBexpr\fB \fR\- A raw gene expression data matrix object. 
.PP
.PP
\fBgeneSet\fB \fR\- 
 A gsea enrichment @\fBT:SMRUCC.genomics.Analysis.HTS.GSEA.Background\fR model
. 
.PP
.PP
\fBname_suffix\fB \fR\- 
 append the pathway name to the map id as suffix?
. 
.PP
.PP
\fBenv\fB \fR\- -. 
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
Hänzelmann S., Castelo R. and Guinney J. GSVA: gene set variation analysis
 for microarray and RNA-Seq data. BMC Bioinformatics, 14:7, 2013.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
GSVA
.SH FILES
.PP
gseakit.dll
.PP
