.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH STATS 1 2020-12-15 "dist" "dist"
.SH NAME
dist \- Distance Matrix Computation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIdist(\fBx\fR as <generic> Object, 
\fBmethod\fR as string = "euclidean", 
\fBdiag\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
\fBupper\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
\fBp\fR as integer = 2, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Distance Matrix Computation
 
 This function computes and returns the distance matrix computed by using 
 the specified distance measure to compute the distances between the rows 
 of a data matrix.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBx\fB \fR\- a numeric matrix, data frame or "dist" object.
.PP
.PP
\fBmethod\fB \fR\- 
 the distance measure to be used. This must be one of "euclidean", "maximum", 
 "manhattan", "canberra", "binary" or "minkowski". Any unambiguous substring 
 can be given.

.PP
.PP
\fBdiag\fB \fR\- -
.PP
.PP
\fBupper\fB \fR\- -
.PP
.PP
\fBp%\fB \fR\- -
.PP
.PP
\fBenv\fB \fR\- -
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
Available distance measures are (written for two vectors x and y):

 + euclidean:
 Usual distance between the two vectors (2 norm aka L_2), sqrt(sum((x_i - y_i)^2)).

 + maximum:
 Maximum distance between two components Of x And y (supremum norm)

 + manhattan:
 Absolute distance between the two vectors (1 norm aka L_1).

 + canberra:
 \fBsum(|x_i - y_i| / (|x_i| + |y_i|))\fR. Terms with zero numerator And 
 denominator are omitted from the sum And treated as if the values were 
 missing.

 This Is intended for non-negative values (e.g., counts), in which case the 
 denominator can be written in various equivalent ways; Originally, R used 
 \fBx_i + y_i\fR, then from 1998 to 2017, |x_i + y_i|, And then the correct 
 \fB|x_i| + |y_i|\fR.

 + binary:
 (aka asymmetric binary): The vectors are regarded As binary bits, so non-zero 
 elements are 'on’ and zero elements are ‘off’. The distance is the proportion 
 of bits in which only one is on amongst those in which at least one is on.

 + minkowski:
 The p norm, the pth root Of the sum Of the pth powers Of the differences 
 Of the components.

 Missing values are allowed, And are excluded from all computations involving 
 the rows within which they occur. Further, When Inf values are involved, 
 all pairs Of values are excluded When their contribution To the distance gave 
 NaN Or NA. If some columns are excluded In calculating a Euclidean, Manhattan, 
 Canberra Or Minkowski distance, the sum Is scaled up proportionally To the 
 number Of columns used. If all pairs are excluded When calculating a 
 particular distance, the value Is NA.

 The "dist" method of as.matrix() And as.dist() can be used for conversion 
 between objects of class "dist" And conventional distance matrices.

 \fBas.dist()\fR Is a generic function. Its default method handles objects inheriting 
 from class "dist", Or coercible to matrices using as.matrix(). Support for 
 classes representing distances (also known as dissimilarities) can be added 
 by providing an as.matrix() Or, more directly, an as.dist method for such 
 a class.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
stats
.SH FILES
.PP
R.math.dll
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org 2020
