.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH STATS 1 2020-07-26 "prcomp" "prcomp"
.SH NAME
prcomp \- Principal Components Analysis
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIprcomp(\fBx\fR as <generic> Object, 
\fBscale\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
\fBcenter\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Principal Components Analysis
 
 Performs a principal components analysis on the given data matrix 
 and returns the results as an object of class \fBprcomp\fR.
 
 The calculation is done by a singular value decomposition of the 
 (centered and possibly scaled) data matrix, not by using eigen on 
 the covariance matrix. This is generally the preferred method for 
 numerical accuracy. The print method for these objects prints the 
 results in a nice format and the plot method produces a scree 
 plot.

 Unlike princomp, variances are computed With the usual divisor N - 1.
 Note that scale = True cannot be used If there are zero Or constant 
 (For center = True) variables.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBx\fB \fR\- 
 a numeric or complex matrix (or data frame) which provides the 
 data for the principal components analysis.

.PP
.PP
\fBcenter\fB \fR\- 
 a logical value indicating whether the variables should be shifted 
 to be zero centered. Alternately, a vector of length equal the 
 number of columns of x can be supplied. The value is passed to scale.

.PP
.PP
\fBscale\fB \fR\- 
 a logical value indicating whether the variables should be scaled to 
 have unit variance before the analysis takes place. The default is 
 FALSE for consistency with S, but in general scaling is advisable. 
 Alternatively, a vector of length equal the number of columns of x 
 can be supplied. The value is passed to scale.

.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The signs of the columns of the rotation matrix are arbitrary, and 
 so may differ between different programs for PCA, and even between 
 different builds of R.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
stats
.SH FILES
.PP
R.math.dll
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org 2020
