.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH STATS 1 2020-07-22 "t.test" "t.test"
.SH NAME
t.test \- Student's t-Test
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIt.test(\fBx\fR as <generic> Object, 
\fBy\fR as <generic> Object = \fB<NULL>\fR, 
\fBalternative\fR as <integer> Hypothesis = [TwoSided], 
\fBmu\fR as double = 0, 
\fBpaired\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
\fBvar_equal\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
\fBconf_level\fR as double = 0.95);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Student's t-Test
 
 Performs one and two sample t-tests on vectors of data.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBx\fB \fR\- a (non-empty) numeric vector of data values.
.PP
.PP
\fBy\fB \fR\- an optional (non-empty) numeric vector of data values.

.PP
.PP
\fBalternative\fB \fR\- 
 a character string specifying the alternative hypothesis, must be one of 
 "two.sided" (default), "greater" or "less". You can specify just the initial 
 letter.

.PP
.PP
\fBmu\fB \fR\- 
 a number indicating the true value of the mean (or difference in means if you 
 are performing a two sample test).

.PP
.PP
\fBpaired\fB \fR\- 	
 a logical indicating whether you want a paired t-test.
.PP
.PP
\fBvar_equal\fB \fR\- 
 a logical variable indicating whether to treat the two variances as being equal. 
 If TRUE then the pooled variance is used to estimate the variance otherwise the 
 Welch (or Satterthwaite) approximation to the degrees of freedom is used.

.PP
.PP
\fBconf_level\fB \fR\- 
 confidence level of the interval.

.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
stats
.SH FILES
.PP
R.math.dll
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org 2020
