.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH GENEEXPRESSION 1 2000-1月 "z_score" "z_score"
.SH NAME
z_score \- Z-score normalized of the expression data matrix
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIz_score(\fBx\fR as <generic> Matrix);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Z-score normalized of the expression data matrix
 
 To avoid the influence of expression level to the 
 clustering analysis, z-score transformation can 
 be applied to covert the expression values to 
 z-scores by performing the following formula:
 
 \fB
 z = (x - u) / sd
 \fR`
 
 x is value to be converted (e.g., a expression value 
 of a genomic feature in one condition), µ is the 
 population mean (e.g., average expression value Of 
 a genomic feature In different conditions), σ Is the 
 standard deviation (e.g., standard deviation of 
 expression of a genomic feature in different conditions).
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBx\fB \fR\- a gene expression matrix. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
the HTS matrix object has been normalized in each gene 
 expression row, z-score is calculated for each gene row
 across multiple sample expression data.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
#### Standard score(z-score)
 
 In statistics, the standard score is the signed number of standard deviations by which the value of 
 an observation or data point is above the mean value of what is being observed or measured. Observed 
 values above the mean have positive standard scores, while values below the mean have negative 
 standard scores. The standard score is a dimensionless quantity obtained by subtracting the population 
 mean from an individual raw score and then dividing the difference by the population standard deviation. 
 This conversion process is called standardizing or normalizing (however, "normalizing" can refer to 
 many types of ratios; see normalization for more).
 
 > https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_score
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
geneExpression
.SH FILES
.PP
phenotype_kit.dll
.PP
