.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH MATH 2 2020-12-15 "predict" "predict"
.SH NAME
predict \- Model Predictions
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIpredict(\fBlm\fR as <generic> lmCall, 
\fBx\fR as <generic> Object, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Model Predictions
 
 predict is a generic function for predictions from the results of 
 various model fitting functions. The function invokes particular 
 methods which depend on the class of the first argument.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBlm\fB \fR\- a model Object For which prediction Is desired.
.PP
.PP
\fBx\fB \fR\- -
.PP
.PP
\fBenv\fB \fR\- -
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
The form of the value returned by predict depends on the class of its argument. 
 See the documentation of the particular methods for details of what is 
 produced by that method.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
Most prediction methods which are similar to those for linear models 
 have an argument newdata specifying the first place to look for 
 explanatory variables to be used for prediction. Some considerable 
 attempts are made to match up the columns in newdata to those used 
 for fitting, for example that they are of comparable types and that 
 any factors have the same level set in the same order (or can be 
 transformed to be so).
 
 Time series prediction methods In package stats have an argument 
 n.ahead specifying how many time steps ahead To predict.
 
 Many methods have a logical argument se.fit saying If standard errors 
 are To returned.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
math
.SH FILES
.PP
R.math.dll
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxie.guigang@live.com\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org 2020
