.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH CLUSTERING 2 2020-10-29 "hclust" "hclust"
.SH NAME
hclust \- Hierarchical Clustering
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIhclust(\fBd\fR as <generic> DistanceMatrix, 
\fBmethod\fR as string = "complete", 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Hierarchical Clustering
 
 Hierarchical cluster analysis on a set of dissimilarities and methods for analyzing it.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBd\fB \fR\- a dissimilarity structure as produced by dist.
.PP
.PP
\fBmethod\fB \fR\- 
 the agglomeration method to be used. This should be (an unambiguous abbreviation of) 
 one of "ward.D", "ward.D2", "single", "complete", "average" (= UPGMA), "mcquitty" (= WPGMA), 
 "median" (= WPGMC) or "centroid" (= UPGMC).

.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
This function performs a hierarchical cluster analysis using a set of dissimilarities for 
 the n objects being clustered. Initially, each object is assigned to its own cluster and 
 then the algorithm proceeds iteratively, at each stage joining the two most similar clusters, 
 continuing until there is just a single cluster. At each stage distances between clusters 
 are recomputed by the Lance–Williams dissimilarity update formula according to the particular 
 clustering method being used.

 A number Of different clustering methods are provided. Ward's minimum variance method aims 
 at finding compact, spherical clusters. The complete linkage method finds similar clusters. 
 The single linkage method (which is closely related to the minimal spanning tree) adopts a 
 ‘friends of friends’ clustering strategy. The other methods can be regarded as aiming for 
 clusters with characteristics somewhere between the single and complete link methods. 
 Note however, that methods "median" and "centroid" are not leading to a monotone distance 
 measure, or equivalently the resulting dendrograms can have so called inversions or reversals 
 which are hard to interpret, but note the trichotomies in Legendre and Legendre (2012).

 Two different algorithms are found In the literature For Ward clustering. The one used by 
 Option "ward.D" (equivalent To the only Ward Option "ward" In R versions <= 3.0.3) does 
 Not implement Ward's (1963) clustering criterion, whereas option "ward.D2" implements that 
 criterion (Murtagh and Legendre 2014). With the latter, the dissimilarities are squared before 
 cluster updating. Note that agnes(*, method="ward") corresponds to hclust(*, "ward.D2").

 If members!= NULL, Then d Is taken To be a dissimilarity matrix between clusters instead 
 Of dissimilarities between singletons And members gives the number Of observations per cluster. 
 This way the hierarchical cluster algorithm can be 'started in the middle of the dendrogram’, 
 e.g., in order to reconstruct the part of the tree above a cut (see examples). Dissimilarities 
 between clusters can be efficiently computed (i.e., without hclust itself) only for a limited 
 number of distance/linkage combinations, the simplest one being squared Euclidean distance 
 and centroid linkage. In this case the dissimilarities between the clusters are the squared 
 Euclidean distances between cluster means.

 In hierarchical cluster displays, a decision Is needed at each merge to specify which subtree 
 should go on the left And which on the right. Since, for n observations there are n-1 merges, 
 there are 2^{(n-1)} possible orderings for the leaves in a cluster tree, Or dendrogram. The 
 algorithm used in hclust Is to order the subtree so that the tighter cluster Is on the left 
 (the last, i.e., most recent, merge of the left subtree Is at a lower value than the last 
 merge of the right subtree). Single observations are the tightest clusters possible, And 
 merges involving two observations place them in order by their observation sequence number.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
clustering
.SH FILES
.PP
MLkit.dll
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxie.guigang@live.com\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xie.guigang@gcmodeller.org 2020
